We're kind of understanding how Visual Studio Code fits in.
Where we write our code.
And you just saw that we put script tags within the body tag of our HTML and we just wrote JavaScript.
Is this the most optimal way? Where do we actually put our JavaScript?
In other words, after I've typed JavaScript, where in my code do I place it?
Eventually, it's gotta be in your HTML, right?
Otherwise, how is your browser ever going to read it?
So that's the most obvious answer - it has to be in your HTML.
But then the question is, will what's the most optimal way for including it in your HTML?
Okay.
And this is where it gets interesting.
In broad terms, there are two places you can include your JavaScript code.
You can include your code (1) inline and (2) you can include your JavaScript code from an external file.
Well, what's better and what does that mean?
Well, firstly inline, all that means is that you literally placing your JavaScript code within your
HTML that you write.
You just saw us use it now, where
I put the script tags and I wrote JavaScript in the HTML document itself.
And within inline, you can either put the JavaScript in the head or in the body. The other place
you can put your JavaScript code is in an external file.
And this is by far the better approach. You'll see later
when your JavaScript starts getting complicated, you want to separate your JavaScript into its own
file.
It's going to be a lot easier for you to follow and to manage, and with complicated websites, you're
going to have many JavaScript files.
Great.
So we've determined that they are two broad categories of how you can include your JavaScript code in
your web page.
It's (1) inline and (2) external.
Inline has two categories, so you could say stepping back there are 3 broad places you can put your JavaScript
code. By far the best is external.
Something I briefly want to discuss is how do you include your JavaScript code in your HTML?
The first thing you need to know is that all JavaScript has to be inserted between the script tag.
It's all fair and well to say we need a script tag, but where do we put the script tag?
Well, think about your HTML page that gets loaded. All browsers have to start with an HTML file,
this is where they start parsing your whole website,
so you need to include your script tags somewhere within this document.
And don't worry too much now about where exactly we put it
just realize there's two broad categories of places you can put your script. No matter what form you
use, whether it's inline or an external file, regardless
you have to have script tags somewhere within this HTML file.
And what does it look like?
Well, let's assume you wanting to just write very basic JavaScript and you wanting to put it all within
your HTML.
What do we need first?
Well, that's right,
we have to have the script tags.
And your JavaScript code is written in between those two script tags.
And why do we need script tags?
Well, just think about it like this, when the browser sees that script tag, it knows that the code
between them is JavaScript.
That is the default behavior of all modern browsers.
So that's inline JavaScript, where you write your code in between the two script tags and you have
to include it somewhere within your HTML file.
The second way you can write JavaScript is in an external file, and it's not scary.
All it is, is it's a separate file.
You create another file that doesn't include your HTML, it just includes your JavaScript, and you just reference
that file from your HTML document.
Because remember, your script tags have to be in your HTML document somewhere.
So here's what it looks like when you reference an external file. And here's some interesting knowledge.
Did you know that if you do include JavaScript between the script tags and you reference an external
file, the code between script tags will be ignored.
It would be pointless you putting it there because you've told the browser that when it encounters a script
tag, it must interpret JavaScript from a file.
And what file is that? Well, in our case, we've called it main.js, and you'll see this in the course
that you can call that file whatever you like.
And the default behavior is that the browser will look for that main.js file in the same directory,
that means in the same folder structure where your index.html file is found.
Let's move on.